---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

# Open Source 

1. What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"?

- Something at the intersection of capitalism and altruism, with something about software in there too. Mainly I think about red hats.

2. What are some advantages of open vs. closed source? 

- Open source is more secure and more likely to have its vulnerabilities patched with enough exposure. Also it's free and usually clunkier than its closed-source counterparts. 

3. what are some potential problems with open source?

- Hard to hide trade secrets or make money with your OSS stuff unless you're doing a Saas-y thing with it. There's usually a much higher caliber of code quality, legibility, test coverage and documentation for such projects and that's kind of a drag if you're working on it personally :/.

4. Why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?

- Frankly I wanted an excuse to work on some open source projects I've been eyeing/considering making.

# Projects: 

List names of four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past; give brief descriptions for each, explain why you use it and what the alternatives might be (note, the projects do not have to be source code based) (Keep in mind that these blogs are publicly available to anybody who stumbles upon them. Make sure that the posts are appropriate.)

1. Visual Studio Code

- Beautiful text-editor meets IDE, this blazing fast and web-dev friendly Electron earns MS their pardon for their 80s business practises. Almost. Both it and its embedded editor, Monaco, are OSS and are regularly updated and contributed to. I like this project because I use it all the time <3.

2. Kotlin

- The most beautiful language I've ever seen. I'm naming all of my children after it. It looks like every modern language I like and runs on the virtual machine of a language I don't. Wonderful kitchen-sink standard lib and every programming paradigm worth shaking a stick at, and only actively developed by a small handful of devs from Intellij, this langauge makes me believe in altruism.

3. Vandium-node

- A tragically little-known framework that provides wrappers for Serverless Framework handlers. Has stunningly gorgeous fluent APIs that save me time and look great while doing it. I tried contributing to this project but the maintainer and lead dev took too long to respond and I got busy with other projects. I was really inspired by its use of whitespace and its insanely abstracted, dependency-injectionable code and thorough test coverage when working on my current project at work.

4. NodeJS

- The runtime that made every wordpress theme developer a bona fide full stack engineer (myself included). Very fast, very ubiquitous, very intelligent interpreter. Home to 2 (!) dramatic socio-politically motivated forks and powering every agency in in Silicon (V)alley, the NodeJS source has been a frequent source of inspiration of indentation guidelines for myself.
